[vcpkg registries] Registries: Take 2 (#13590)
microsoft/vcpkg: docs/specifications/git-registries.md

that contain:

* `"repository"`: The `"repository"` field from the git registry object
* `"ref"`: The `"ref"` field from the git registry object, or else `null` if that field doesn't exist
* `"commit"`: The actual commit ID that the ref referred to
* `"repo-sha256"`: The sha256 of the repository name. This is how the repo is referred to on the filesystem.

For example, a `vcpkg-lock.json` might look like:

```json
{
  "registries": {
    "git": [
      {
        "repository": "https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg",
        "ref": "2020.06",
        "commit": "6185aa76504a5025f36754324abf307cc776f3da",
        "repo-sha256": "c8b89b264e7828a7838e3a124a3e827a4485bef895ae9b1bebb84e75a9ffb702"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Implementation on Disk

We want to download as little as possible from the internet,
while also making sure to be fast, and while also sharing work as much as possible.
Additionally, we wish to treat this as cache, i.e., delete-able without losing any information.
Therefore, we've decided on the following implementation strategy:

In the current vcpkg cache home (shared by binary caching archives,

> located at `${XDG_CACHE_HOME-$HOME/.cache}/vcpkg` on unix, and `%LOCALAPPDATA%\vcpkg` on Windows),

Author: There are no environment docs for this right now.

we will add a new directory to cache the downloaded git registries: `registries/git`.
Then, for every repository, we'll add a directory named with the sha256 of the repository.

> In this repository root, we `git init`, run `git fetch <repository url> <ref>`,

Author: I don't know; is there a good way to do this? we might have to just have a lock file.

We want to download as little as possible from the internet,
while also making sure to be fast, and while also sharing work as much as possible.
Additionally, we wish to treat this as cache, i.e., delete-able without losing any information.
Therefore, we've decided on the following implementation strategy:

In the current vcpkg cache home (shared by binary caching archives,
located at `${XDG_CACHE_HOME-$HOME/.cache}/vcpkg` on unix, and `%LOCALAPPDATA%\vcpkg` on Windows),
we will add a new directory to cache the downloaded git registries: `registries/git`.
Then, for every repository, we'll add a directory named with the sha256 of the repository.

In this repository root, we `git init`, run `git fetch <repository url> <ref>`,

> and then check that commit out at `<repository root>/<commit>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then check that commit out at `registries/<commit>`.
```
Do we not want to share commits between registries (as long as the commit hash matches)?

Author: hmm, that works. It also fixes the "different URLs map to the same repo"

> there is only one way to update the repository to the tag at a later date - deleting the lock file.

Reviewer 2: Can they change the tag though?

Reviewer: I think the idea is that the tag will not be re-queried if the lock file exists.

Reviewer 2: I mean, if the user edits their vcpkg.json to point to a different tag, do we notice and take action?

Author: Sure, in the `vcpkg-configuration.json` file.

Author: Yes, since `vcpkg-lock` maps `{repository, ref}` pairs to specific commits.
